# Intelligent-Traffic-Signal-Control-System
## Introduction
Traffic congestion is a major problem in many cities, and the fixed-cycle light signal controllers are not resolving the high waiting time in the intersection. So we developed a smart Traffic light control system which will take into account the real time traffic condition and smartly manage the intersection. Our proposed system takes an image from the CCTV cameras at traffic junctions as input for real-time traffic calculation. The image is passed on to the vehicle detection algorithm, which uses YOLO object detection algorithm. The number of vehicles of each class, such as car, bike, bus, bicycle and truck is detected. Based on the number of vehicles, the time is calculated to set the green signal timer for each lane which  is restricted to a maximum and minimum value in order to avoid starvation of a particular lane.
 
## Technology
This project uses YoloV3 neural network to count vehicles on a given video. You only look once (YOLO) is a state-of-the-art, real-time object detection system. Prior work on object detection repurposes classifiers to perform detection. Instead, we frame object detection as a regression problem to spatially separated bounding boxes and associated class probabilities. A single neural network predicts bounding boxes and class probabilities directly from full images in one evaluation. The object detection task consists in determining the location on the image where certain objects are present, as well as classifying those objects.
